=Special Olympics Registration Application

Check out the application at 
    http://specialolympicsapp.herokuapp.com/
    
or run the application on your own machine by following configuration described below.
==Configuration
* Ruby Version:
    ruby 2.0.0p247 (2013-06-27 revision 41674) [x86_64-darwin11.4.2]

* Rails Version:
    Rails 4.0.0

* Database creation and initialization
    $ rake db:migrate

* Deployment
    $ rails server
    navigate browser to localhost
    
==Vision Statement
===Introduction

The system proposed in this vision document will aid in the administration of a regional special Olympics competition. Some of the tasks the system will accomplish include the registration of athletes, keeping and updating the athlete’s competition data, creating name tags for athletes, and generating heat sheets for the competition.

===Problem Statement

Currently the special Olympics registration process is all done by hand. Administrative staff must collect forms from teachers and manually enter the athletes' data into a computer. Once the data is in the computer, there is a program that will generate heat sheets for the events, but it is several years old.

Our new system will allow teachers to handle all of the data entry, taking stress off of the administrative staff. It will also incorporate the functionality of the old system.


===Stakeholder Description

Stakeholders (non-user)
Technical Contact- Frank
Project Sponsor- The Special Olympics
Athletes- these athletes deserve to compete in an effectively run competition
Users

We have identified two classes of users that will operate the system:
Teachers- will enter and edit athlete registration information
Administrative Staff- can edit registration information and generate heat sheets for competition

===High Level Goals
Simplify the Special Olympics registration process
Generate accurate and well formatted heat sheets by event for the competition
Generate name tags for competitors

===User Goals

Teachers:
Enter and edit athlete information
Remove athletes from roster
View registration status (complete/incomplete)

Administrative Staff:
Manage teachers (user ID, passwords, etc)
Verify athlete information, specifically medical information
Create heat sheets and name tags for competition

===Assumptions and Dependencies

We will assume the following:
Users will have internet access
Registration information must be entered at least 1 month prior to the competition

===Scope

The system will perform and support all of the goals and constraints enumerated in this document. The system will not provide any sort of "check in" system for the athletes. All tasks performed by the administrative staff on the day of the competition will be simple data extraction and formatting.

==Supplementary Specifications
===Introduction

This document describes the requirements of the system not directly stated in the Vision Statement.

===System Features

The system shall provide user authentication for both teachers and administrative staff.
The system shall validate entered group and competitor information.
The system shall log diagnostic information and display a clear error message upon the occurrence of an error.

===Usability

A user manual shall be created for the administrative staff.
The system shall be designed such that a teacher with basic proficiency in web browser usage will be able to learn and effectively use the system unaided in less than 20 minutes and a member of the administrative staff will be able to use the system effectively after less than 30 minutes of practice with the user manual as a reference. 

===Reliability

The system shall have at least 99.9% up-time.
The system shall generate heat sheets without error.
The system shall not lose any entered contestant information.

===Performance

The system shall let 5 teachers submit an entry form simultaneously in less than 20 seconds.
The system shall generate all heat sheets and name tags in less than 1 minute
The system shall support at least 1,000 groups, 10,000 competitors, and 25 event types per Olympics.

===Supportability

The system shall be designed to allow a configuration file to specify main configuration parameters
The system shall be designed to allow the events offered to be changed relatively easily. 
Implementation Constraints

The system shall use HTML and CSS for the front-end web application.
The system shall use the Ruby on Rails framework for the back-end database management system.
The system shall support Internet Explorer (Versions 11.0+), Mozilla Firefox (Versions 26.0+), and Google Chrome (Versions 32.0+).


===Reports

The system shall generate the following reports:
Heat Sheets: For each heat, displays the type of event, the time of the event, and list of all competitors in the heat (including each competitor’s age, sex, division, group, and supervisor).
Name Tags: For each competitor, displays that competitor’s name, age, sex, group, supervisor, event names, event times, and divisions.
Group Registration Form: For each group, displays the school/work activity name, teacher/supervisor’s name and contact information (day and evening phone numbers, fax number, and email address), and each competitor’s name, age, sex, event names, and qualifying scores.
Group Sheets: For each group, displays the group name, teacher/supervisor’s name, and each competitor’s name, age, sex, event names, event codes, event times, and divisions.
Registration Status Form: For each group, displays the registration status (complete or incomplete) and any fields that must be filled in to complete registration.

===Business Rules

A competitor can compete in at most 2 events.
A competitor must have a supervisor.
